- What 671 million push notifications say about how people spend their day

http://andrewchen.co/breaking-down-671-million-push-notifications-by-hour/

iOS and Android app usage kicks up in the morning around 7am, gradually builds throughout the day before falling off its peak at 9pm


- Why 60% of your users opt-out of push notifications, and what to do about it

http://andrewchen.co/why-people-are-turning-off-push/

iOS opt in, Android no opt in

High opt in:  Ride sharing, Food & Beverage, Financial,  etc. ~79%
Low: Social, News & Media ~ 39%

They only want to receive push notifications that are relevant, time-sensitive, and valuable. 

1) Make a Great First Impression

Start off the user’s app experience with a clear and informative splash page, 
an extra screen that pops up the first time a user opens your app. Use this prime real estate 
to showcase your app’s top features, and to demonstrate the value of opting into push notifications. 
When new users fully understand the value of your app and how push messages will add to their experience, 
they are much more likely to opt-in to push notifications.

2) Pop the Question

You have one shot to ask for push permissions; ensure it isn’t wasted by first asking in a pre-ask splash page 
or in-app message, rather than the official iOS page. By diverting the initial question and gauging the user’s interest, 
you can save your one opportunity for when the time is right. 
If the user clicks “YES” in the pre-ask page, prompt them to the official permission page; 
if the user clicks “NO,” wait until they are more familiar with your app and ask them again later.

3) Maintain the Relationship

Once your users begin receiving push notifications, it is critical that you respect this incredibly personal communication channel. 
By only sending hyper-targeted, personalized push messages that actually add value, 
you can ensure that your users don’t later opt-out of push, or worse yet, uninstall your app.

- Push notification click-through rates via Alli Brian @ Kahuna

http://andrewchen.co/new-data-on-push-notification-ctrs-shows-the-best-apps-perform-4x-better-than-the-worst-heres-why-guest-post/

Notes: 

High engagement: Utility/Financial, Ride sharing, travel etc. ~40%
Low: Social, e-commerce ~ 12%

1. Find your cadence: 
sending the right message to the right person at the right time. In many cases, 
the elegance is in knowing when not to send a message

2. Make it personal: 
Use a unique identifier so even anonymous users will get accurately personalized notifications
device-based tracking does more harm than good

3. Timing is everything
Great timing should consider both user behavior and urgency
Notifications that include urgent information need to be sent at a time that is relevant to the context of the message

customizing delivery time based on user preference results in an average conversion uplift of 384%.

Great push is all about inspiring delight – facilitating a relevant and valuable app experience for your users and securing a prized place in their daily routines. 

ocus on understanding what your users value about your service and tailor your messages to their unique needs and interests

